einleitung mit hinfuehrung
I am sure most, if not all of you, know rappers like B.I.G. or Tupac who addressed issues in police brutality and heavy racism in their songs during
the 80s and 2000s. However, they were not the first ones to use music as a means of informing thei audience about social problems they face or 
experience. In fact, the same phenomenom already was present during the civil rights movement of America, which is the topic of my term paper,
which i want to present to you.

struktur:
main goal and sub goals:
	revisit what role music had during the civil rights movement
1		how music worked as a means of demonstration
2		how the media covered music during the civil rights movement
3		having a look at one of the most well-known liberation songs
4		the people performing the liberation songs

einfuehren meines themas in ganzes thema, warum musik, wie passt des rein
	'yk blues and jazz and gospel came during that time ya da ya da ya da'

goals erlaeutern und erklaeren
	1. Point was to examine how music was used to give the people a strong voice that would be heard.
Started as slaves using their voice and vocals to communicate on the farms and to address everyday issues during the eighteenth and nineteenth century. 
Often the early stages of protest songs had religious connotations and dealt with topics such as liberation from stress,
remembering better and happier days and hoping for a better future.
Key to understanding the role music had during the civil rights movement is to also understand the kind of music 
that was popular among African Americans during that time. During that time, a new genre, called "soul" was gaining traction
in the communities. It resembles a mixture of gospel, blues and parts of jazz and reflected the listeners feelings of pride, hope
and love during their fight against racial inequality. Musicans reworked and re-adjusted significant parts of "soul" throughout 
the historical movement.
The music was commonplace during protest marches, sit-ins, boycotts and public assemblies. It gave members of these protests pride 
in what they did and also a loud voice for others to be heard. Members of the civil rights movement also were supported by the church,
serving as a unifying factor by providing vocal leadership via singing and choral music.



	2. In this part I wanted to take a look at how media representation contributed to the civil rights movement.
Many famous musicians became engaged with the Civil Rights Movement because of media coverage of it and would often inspire 
others to join the civil rights movement. For example Mahalia Jackson, who was an American african gospel singer, only gained bigger attention
after performing in various concert halls around the world.
The invention of the TV, which regular household were able to afford, also played a big role. Media platforms like the Ed Sullivan program
allowed black arists to perform infront of an ever bigger audience and helped carry the idea and motivations behind the civil rights movement
across the country. Someone like Diana Ross only gained a following in the American audiences thanks to appearing on the Ed Sullivan show.
Through the help of the Ed Sullivan program, America would be exposed to the sounds of the civil rights movement and its culture, strengthening
the cause. America was already being influenced by music so the appearence of soul and gospel music only fueled it. So much so, that even big
figures like Bob Dylan wrote songs about the struggles of the African Americans (Blowin' in the Wind!!).



	3. Writing a term paper about music would not be possible without also including one of the most well-known liberation song from back then.
The whole movement in general was very dynamic, inventive and adaptive and concentrating on getting the job of ending segregation and disempowerment
done by not being dogmatic about certain aspects. And so was their music, it aimed at gaining attention at itself and its cause, whatever instruments,
hymns or voices it took. A great example of this is the song "We Shall Overcome". It originally started as "I'll Overcome Someday" in the eighteenth
century, but was rewritten by African American tobacco laborers during the interwar period(between the wars).
Many people changed different elements of the song to better fit their current situation, like Pete Seeger, a white folk musician and political activist,
who added lines promulgate the invitation for human rights and social justice.



	4. All the music and lines would mean nothing, if it were not for the people performing and singing the songs.
The two major groups were the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) and the similar Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) Freedom Singers.
The head of public communications and relations of the SNCC, Julian Bond, even called their group "the public face" of the movement and also claims
that the freedom singers went out of their way to cross racial and geographical barriers to demonstrate to their audience who they were and what they
were standing for.
The activists, who performed freedom anthems at the front lines of the movement were also crucial. They sang songs from many genres that had interactions
with the liberation songs, like "Oxford Town" by Bob Dylan, which critized the state-sactioned racism and ended up starting violent riots and even
ended fataly for four students and a teacher from the University of Mississippi.



Results of my research:
	The result of my research shows, that the influence music has on its audience is much bigger than expected, especially during the civil rights
movement of America. It revealed the long progress of multiple generations, being stuck in the oppression, segregation and racial inequality to manage
to stand up for themselves using nothing but their creativity and voice to form a following, which grew exponentially thanks to charming performers
and modern broadcasting devices.


Conclusion
	Music's effectiveness and contribution to the civil rights movement can be attested to by activists like Martin Luther King Jr. and others. 
Martin Luther King Jr. said, that liberation songs are an important and powerful part of the movement, 
by establishing new courage and a sense of community. They helped maintain hope and faith in the future, which both black and white folk fought
for together. The songs managed to encourage the downtrodden to work toward the day when they would finally experience equality.

The use of music has not changed that much, even from back then. It is still widely used to bring attention to social problems, like rap showed police
brutality and heavy racism during the 80s to 2000s.




works cited

eyerman:
	history of "we shall overcome", importance of recordings
gridley:
	influence soul music has on its listeners and how soul was created
king:
	who contributed what to the song we shall overcome
kesha:
	how the early stages of freedom songs were created
rodriguez etc:
	the artists creating soul for the movement
rose:
	where were the freedom songs played




